From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 90 recorded live
Thursday, September 8th, 2011. Support for Hanselman
is provided by Tellerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
designed with Microsoft UX expert,
Sarah Summers. This is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I
am in Nebraska. Are we
in Nebraska? We are freaking
Lincoln, Nebraska, and I am
sitting down with Sarah Summers, who
is a user experience, expert
and evangelist work for, for
the big blue monster. You
worked for Microsoft, the desktop.
Why would you do such
a thing? You worked in
industry as a designer and
UX person for many years,
I understand in different agencies,
right? And then you come
here, this is where designers
come to ballet or no,
no, no, because there's some
of the best people I've
ever worked with. So I
really am, you know, focused
on who I get to
work with and working with
really smart people is very
important to me. So that's
why I'm at Microsoft. How
long have you been at
Microsoft? Almost three years. I've
been here. I was just
about four years. So not
that long. So what did
you do? Were you just
a designer? Always, always, yes.
Came out of the wind
that way. No. So I
went to Purdue and I
got a technology degree and
I focused on visual design,
UI design, interaction design. And
then I ended up doing
UX. We did a show
with Jeremy, Kratz the designer
who created my blog. And
we talked about his process
and the design process. And
that got me thinking about
design and how coders think
about it. Like from our
perspective, as in our ignorance,
I think would be fair
to say we see a
lot of, of pencil drawing
and a lot of, you
know, you got you guys,
I'm going to separate us
now. I'm afraid to forgive
me. I'm going to chop
us in half there's designers.
And then there's developers. I
see you guys doing a
lot of white boarding and
a lot of pencils and
a lot of balsamic and
a lot of, you know,
onion skinning and all this
kind of stuff and AB
testing and then things pop
out. But you're using terms
like designer, UI designer, UX
designer, this is all different,
but we don't think of
it. We, the coders don't
think of it as different.
Can you break it down
for me? The taxonomy of
design? Sure, sure. So I
think when you have, let's
say visual design, that's really
the, sort of the skinning
of the Doing the color
selection, testing, the, you know,
the different colors together, making
sure everything looks harmonious and
then UI design is really
taking that user interface and
making it understandable and, you
know, placing things, whether you
use a grid or, you
know, you, you go out
and test against what else
is out there with your
users. That's really that user
interface focus is really just
organizing that the pieces of
the application in a usable
way. And then user experience
design, I think specifically focuses
on the user and the
purpose and the meaning and
the value of what you're
making all centered around the
user and their tasks that
they're trying to accomplish, Like
the user's workflow and how
they move through their workflow.
And they move through their
day and have the design
affects that. Right, Right. So
it's, you know, one part
science and psychology and the
other part is, you know,
design and organization. I think
that developers sometimes think that
we live in a world
of data and hard numbers
and things either compile or
they don't. And in the
design world, it feels like,
and this is from our
perspective that what you guys
do is very subjective and,
you know, Hey, it kind
of looks nice. It kind
of doesn't look nice, but
are there hard numbers that
are like, based in like
psychology and how humans think
about things and how humans
eyes move that can really
be pointed to and say,
no, this is a good
design for these reasons rooted
in the lizard part of
your brain, or are you
guys just telling us stuff
and we just have to
believe you. Oh yeah, it's
really there. So a lot
of times you can test
and see it. And so
I would, I try to
do with developers is take
them out to do user
testing and research with me.
And so when you're sitting
down in, you know, someone's
office and you're watching them
work, you have that aha
moment where you can really
see the difference between like
something that isn't as well
laid out and something that,
you know, has been really
thoroughly researched and thought through.
And absolutely there's that lots
of great psychology lizard brain
stuff that we utilize to
prove out what we're doing
When it, when it, when
we look at blogs about
design, when we as developer
see things like we're watching,
we're all watching. I think
you don't work for the
windows organization, but you and
I are both learning about
the next version of windows
by reading the same blog
posts that the public is.
If you're not involved in
that at all, neither am
I, I don't know anyone
over there. I, I noticed
that they had a blog
post recently about redesigning Explorer
and putting in things about
the, the ribbon control and
people either love the ribbon
or they hate the ribbon.
And there's a lot of
just initial knee jerk reaction.
I call it that someone
moved my cheese, right. We've
gone to, we've moved everyone's
cheese, we're moving buttons around.
And that got me thinking
about design and how things
had to feel stale versus
things that we're comfortable with.
How can you say that
something is a good design
if everyone hates it? Right.
Well, you know, if people
don't realize is, you know,
some people hate the ribbon.
Some people love it, but
what the ribbon enabled everyone
to do is increase their
productivity. So they may be
grumbling about the ribbon, but
everyone's better and faster at
what they're doing all the
while we added. But over
200 additional features all baked
into the ribbons. You can
actually do more. So, yeah,
I think the ribbon always
had some controversy. And of
course, when Sanocki put that
blog post out where we
added it to explore, you
know, it makes sense because
what we're now trying to
do is say, well, you
know, the browser can be
a consumptive experience where we're
just going out and we're
looking at stuff, reading things,
or it can be a
creation experience where we're going
to, you know, expand up,
pull the ribbon down and
do work in browser. You
know, that's really interesting that
you bring that up your
act. I kind of thought
I came up with this
on my own, but you've
actually echoed words back to
me that I've said in
my head, when I was
talking to someone about the,
the iPad and they said,
well, you know, can I
do some work on this?
I think it was like
a guy on a plane.
He's like, why can I
do work on this? And
I was like, well, I
mean, you can, but I
said, there's, there's con consumption.
This is just such a
wonderful device for truly consuming.
But in every instance on
the iPad, when you're trying
to produce, you're kind of
fighting against it. You're fighting
against the multitasking. You're fighting
against the keyboard. You know,
it's, it's, it's kind of
there, but it's really about
consumption. And then if you,
if you flip the access
and you start really focusing
on PR producing the user
experience has to be completely
different. That's right. Yeah. And
I was, I'm going to
be doing this talk on
mobile. And people were saying,
well, when should I have
a native app? And when
should I have a mobile
app? And when should I
have a mobile website? And
that got me thinking about
mobile websites are great for
consuming and native apps are
better for production, right? Yeah.
Have you spent much time
looking at like how things
like HTML five versus flash
versus server life versus native
apps can, can, and there,
their various pros and cons
can enable a good experience
for production versus a good
experience for consumption? Oh, absolutely.
I mean, you know, when
we really just had like
a flash and silver lights
work with, I mean, those
were powerful, incredible tools to
allow users to really produce
great things. So, you know,
the same thing with HTML
five, I mean, you know,
that blend, all of those
things are going to really
allow people to make great
things for, you know, not
just consumption, but, you know,
allow people to create It's.
So it's so immature though.
Like the example I always
point to on the iPhone
is the Twitter mobile client.
The actual app is very
responsive and very quick, but
the HTML five version of
the same thing. If you
visit twitter.com on a mobile,
it's just awful. It's stuttery.
And it's a mess. I
just think to myself, it
must be because it's early,
right. It's early, it's early.
Right. And when, when we
used to dial up and
use modems, like that was
incredibly slow too. And then
we had to, you know,
figure it out. When you
are prescribing a design, are
you thinking about the tech
or are you thinking about
the experience and then you
like leave? Like when does,
when does that stop? You
see what I'm saying? Like,
you might say, there'll be
a grid, there'll be a
tree, but you haven't necessarily
said, and it will be
a plugin. Oh, right. So
when do you start thinking
about the visual implementation? Yeah.
And is it, is it
your job? Like you go
and design a whole thing
and you do AB testing
and you say yesterday, there's
going to be this tree
on the left here. And
the developer says, well, I
could use flash. I could
use circle or I can
use HTML to get the
same thing. And you have
to then decide, well, there's
the initial startup of the
plugin, but once it starts
up several lights faster, but
HTML five is more portable.
Oh yeah. I, I think
you want to be part
of those conversations and behalf
of the user, but you
know, I've always tried to
make sure that everybody gets
to be in the room,
listening to, you know, these
conversations, talking to clients and
making those decisions throughout, like
I'm all about collaboration and
making sure everybody gets to
work together and make decisions.
So you're not just a,
as a designer, you're not
just like slapping down something
or throwing something over the
fence to the developer, like
here, figure it out, But
that's, I'll push, but push
it a little bit. That's
warm and fuzzy, but isn't
there a, a bright line
where you feel a designer
should dictate implementation versus when
you should stop and say,
well, here's what it should
look like. Here's how, when
you click it slides open
that da here's the complete
animation that I've done in
my prototyping tool. And I
want it done in HTML
five. Or do you leave
that ultimate implementation up to
the developer? Oh, no. I
mean, if there's some better
way that the dev developer
knows that I don't know
about like yeah, absolutely. Show
me, teach me. Cause I
wanna make sure, you know,
they're, you know, they're learning
from me, I'm learning from
them. And now if they've
got a, you know, a
better sort of implementation technology,
then yeah. Let's do that.
Okay. Yeah. What are you
implementing most of your like,
like how far do you
go? Do you, you make
animations, do you make, what
is the delivery product that
you would, that you, as
an, as an interactive designer
would give someone like, if
we were making a Twitter
application sure. I'd want to
deliver as interactive of a
working prototype as possible. So
everybody can feel the transitions
and really get the true
essence of what you've made.
So you can have those
conversations where you're talking about
the same thing and doing
less hand-waving to describe what
you mean. Yeah. What do
you usually do that kind
of stuff in whatever you
can find. I know that
most designers, if I understand
correctly starting Photoshop, like literally,
that's just where you live.
Yeah. You do a lot
of work in Photoshop, but
I use expression blend primarily,
especially sketch flow to get
across those ideas. And of
course, with a sketch flow,
you get the sketchy styles.
So people understand that this
is a concept and it's
not the final thing and
they're comfortable using it and
giving feedback, which you can
do all in sketch flow.
Like I saw in your
talk earlier today, you had
what looked like you drawn
on a napkin or maybe
drawn on a piece of
paper, a phone, and then
the interface that was kind
of a Panorama behind the
phone, would you go into
science, something like that in
sketch flow, and then the
developer would move around within
your penciled design it, feel
of how things move. Absolutely.
If I'm, if I want
to do something really quick,
I'll, you know, sketch some
stuff out and, you know,
snap a picture or scan
it in and then just,
you know, put the interactions
right on top of it
and send it out. So
you can at least get
the idea out there. I
mean, it's amazing what you
can do with a half
an hour, you know, just
sketch something and get the
idea out. It's amazing what
developers can do with a
half an hour to two,
we can waste a lot
of time. One of the
things that was really interesting
about your, your talk is
that you kept saying that,
well, you can do this
in half an hour. You
can do that in an
hour. I mean, it didn't
seem to me, like you
were advocating really heavy, upfront
design. Your design process seemed
very kind of agile and
very iterative. And you were
saying even, what was it
that you called? It was
it wasn't a poor man's
AB testing. You were basically
saying people aren't doing AB
testing. They perceive it to
be a big deal and
expensive and a lot of
time. So what were some
of the techniques that you
had for doing AB testing
on the cheap? So, I
mean, if you just want
to even, you know, walk
over to a different department
in your office and have
somebody, you know, have somebody
in accounting, test out your,
your idea, your concept. I
mean, you don't need a
lot of time or budget.
You know, once you walk
through your idea three times
with different people, you're going
to know exactly what you
need to do. And then
you bring in the formal
testing, like at that point,
Oh, you can, or you,
I mean, honestly, you know,
you can really kind of
go about it that way
and I'm still make a
great product. I mean, you
can do formal testing. Sure.
But you know, for all
the people out there that
don't have the budget to
do that, I think you
can still make a fantastic
product just by testing with
people around you. This episode
of Hansel minutes is brought
to you by careers. 2.0
careers, 2.0 is a new
service by our friends at
stack overflow. You're probably all
familiar with stack overflow, the
online Q and a resource
dedicated specifically to programmers and
programming related topics. Well, the
team at stack overflow created
careers 2.0 to provide you
with access to great jobs
and introduce you to a
bunch of great companies that
you might consider working for
you. Even if you're not
currently looking for a job,
think of careers. 2.0 is
a programmer profile gives you
a platform to show that
you're awesome by featuring your
proudest contributions to stack overflow,
GitHub SourceForge Bitbucket, anything programming
related, you can even add
your favorite programming books from
amazon.com profiles on careers. 2.0
are free. They're easy to
get started, especially by importing
your LinkedIn profile. However, there's
one catch profiles on career
2.0 or invite only they
did this to keep out
the spam and have a
high quality environment. Fortunately, for
you as a Hansel minutes
listener, I've got your back
head on over to careers
dot stack overflow.com/h M to
accept your invitation today, once
again, that's careers dot stack,
overflow.com/hm. I hope you like
it might you not find
yourself. Self-selecting like likeminded people
like you're in the same
company. Like you said, like
there's, it's, it's attractive idea
to pop down to accounting
and ask whoever to check
out, take a look at
your design, but how important
is it to go and
find like a target audience?
Like if you're making a
website for, well, you showed
the app website guilt, which
is a high end fashion,
mostly women. And now moving
into men, surely they're not
going to drop down into
the developer pit and go
and ask them what they
think they're going to go
and find women in that
demographic and then do the
testing. Right. Well, I mean
for, yeah, for a complicated
sort of product or idea
where you're not the target
audience, like, you know, if
you're designing something for tweens,
you're going to need some
twins. Absolutely. But if you're
just trying to, you know,
figure out whether like an
interaction works or if, you
know, from your intuition fee.
Yeah. Like, okay, log in
here and tell me, you
know, I'm going to observe
somebody just, just log into
the site and let's see
how it feels. Yeah. I
mean, you can really just
get that idea just by
yeah. Popping over to, you
know, account management and just
having somebody play with it.
Surprising how few times I've
seen that done. You know
what I mean? Like I've
seen people go all the
way to implementation before they
get that kind of feedback.
At my last company, we
would take a giant piece
of butcher paper and we
would actually paste it up
on the cubes and like
near the bathroom or in
the kitchen. And we hang
markers from it on a
string. Exactly. And I think
that's great too. You just,
you just want outside feedback.
And a lot of times
people can see what you
can't see because you're so,
you know, absorbed by it
or, you know, we can
all get my OPIC. So
I mean, some of the
simplest things, you know, can
go on a sticky note
and, you know, get put
up on that butcher block
and you're like, Oh yes,
that's a great idea. I
was too close to the
problem. Yeah. One of the
other things that has been
striking me recently as I
redesigned my blog. And of
course, as I mentioned, we
talked to the designer was
that no one told me
that my blog looked horrifically
old and it was almost
like one time I was
in a meeting. I think
I had like a booger
hanging out of my nose
and no one would say
anything until after I was
like, Oh my goodness, you
guys let me sit in
that meeting for an hour
with a burger in my
nose. It's like, people let
me have a nasty looking
blog for two years. And
then one of the feet,
one of the, the folks
that reached my block said,
well, it didn't look old
three years ago. Right. But
it started looking old two
years ago. Why, why does
that, why does that happen?
Why does a blog that
looks so fresh and so
clean so many years ago
suddenly look old, it didn't
change. Right? Well, styles change.
And I, you know, styles
changed for everything. I mean,
fashion, art, everything, everything is
constantly kind of moving forward
and we're all as humans,
we're all used to that.
So when we see things
that we've seen a million
times before, or maybe don't
have that new cool fonts
or whatever it may be
yeah. Then it starts to
look old. So I think
constantly sort of keeping your
site fresh or, you know,
at least pay attention to
what everybody else is doing.
So, you know, also when
your stuff is kind of
looking a little tired. Yeah.
I was looking at my
iPad recently thinking it looks
kind of old and I
was like, really, this thing
just came out a couple
of years ago and I'm
feeling like it needs a
refresh. Right? Some skinning. Yes.
It's interesting though, because they've
committed to a look, they
really have set themselves down
to a look. It'll be
interesting to see what they
can do. And it makes
me worried a little bit
about Metro. Cause I'm watching
the Metro is a nation
of everything at Microsoft. It's
just kind of happening organically.
I think people outside might
think that there's some boss
at the top. Who's demanding
that we all use this
font and that, but it's
just kind of things that
are natural for Metro are
moving that way. I mean,
parts of MSDN have become
that way. We've seen the
phone, you know, presumably the
next version of the operating
system will have some Metro.
That seems like a big
bet. It's a huge bet.
But I think it's, I
think it's a really clever
one because Metro's actually really
genius at being so clean
and so simple and what's
nice and new and not
tired about it is that
it isn't so heavy handed.
I look at, you know,
a lot of the sort
of heavy gradient, heavy drop
shadow stuff. And, and that
seems a little overdone. If
it's a button, it's a
button and it doesn't need
to be so overstated about
it. So I think Metro
is a great bet because
it's really clean and simple.
And it's easy to understand
because you know, we used
sort of the idea of
like the simple traffic or
subway sort of Oh yeah.
I cannot gruffy and, and
messaging to, to convey the
same thing without being so
heavy handed about it. That's
interesting. I'd ever put that
together that the kind of
the New York subway map, flat
clean fonts, that kind of
Helvetica like you ever, you've
probably seen the Helvetica documentary.
Have you seen the movie?
Exactly, of course. Yeah. And
it's just, there's just something
about the curves of the
good black text on a
white background with bright, bright,
but not overly bright colors,
just as classic. Exactly. Yeah.
Nice. Clean and classic. Yeah.
Well, it'll be interesting to
see how far we can
take Metro in the sense
of what does it look
like in four or five
years? Is it going to
start to get some garish
accenting of some kind or
are we going to be
able to flex it and
move it around and make
a real application? Like I'm
trying to envision what Microsoft
word and Metro and like
what would that look like
without taking away the good
things like the ribbon and
what does it add other
than a coat of paint?
Right. Well, it can be
a coat of paint, but
I think anytime you add
extra lace or extra fancy
to it over time, you
know, that gets removed and
you go back to what
the basic good thing. I
feel like we're moving towards
the way that star Trek
did all their colors. I
mean, you remember in the
star Trek panels, it was
just lines and basic colors.
There were no drop shadows
or fake buttons that looked
like they were popping out
of the screen. I mean,
everything that they were working
on were just matte, flat
color. Right. And I think
that, you know, that, that
style of the time, this
sort of fifties and sixties
sort of mid century design,
where it is really clean
and the colors are really,
you know, bold, that's, you
know, we're returning to that
for a reason architecture's returning
to that. And you know,
of course, you know, postmodern
architecture is dead where we
did that. Overexaggeration that over
emblematic stuff. So yeah, I
think everybody's kind of moving
back to Lake simple clean.
Is it, is it a
cyclical thing? I mean, are
we going to get back
into crazy Roman looking Saraf
type stuff or are we
like, I'm trying to understand,
like I'm imagining the timeline
kind of circling back on
itself and I'm wondering are
we can converging onto some
shared thinking around design and
colors and font and type,
or is this just part
of an ongoing cyclical thing
that's moving forward? Like, are
we, what's the word, you
know, are we coming to
a point where we just
kind of repeating ourselves over
and over and we'll be
right back to times, new
Roman in a couple of
years, You know, we could
be, but it's also a
reflection of sort of the
psychology of, you know, current
state of the world, that
type of thing. I mean
the, so for example, when
postmodern started popping up And
then maybe you could define
postmodernism just to make sure
that that listener may not
be familiar. So postmodern architecture
was that really sort of
exaggerated big and then distorted.
Right. So take some modern
design and then add, yeah.
Add like a couple gigantic
overstated Roman columns to the
front of it and there
you have it. Okay. And
so the response to that
was because we all kind
of felt lied to the
clean sort of classic design,
you know, it wasn't really
the way the world was
working then. So we distorted
it. And so my favorite
example is the sort of
talking heads video where he's
got this gigantic suit, The
whole Zoot suit, like, is
he David Bowie space kind
of thing. It's like 1940
days in 2014. Yeah, Exactly.
So it's a, it's a
statement about overstatement. And so
now I think we've since
left that because we want
to return to that sort
of clean. Like, no, I
want it to be what
it really says it is.
I want things to feel
like they're supposed to feel
when you're interacting with them.
Someone said something. I saw
something go by on Twitter
a couple of hours ago
and I'm going to get
the quote wrong. But it
was something along the lines
of that boiling something down
to its essential elements can
never be a mistake. Right.
Maybe they were quoting you
in one of your talks.
Oh no. I, I think
that's, yes. That's a famous
quote. I can't remember. Yes.
It's what, it's just one
of those ideas that getting
down to the basics, it's
almost like we have to,
it's funny. My, my mom
says this about my kids
that children can either grow
up, like straight up in
the air or grow out.
You get tall, you can
get fat, but you can't
do both. So you expand
and then you can track
and get taller when you
expand it, you try. And
the same thing happens in
his design. You know, we
Guild a bunch of things
we put in drop shadows,
we add them and then
we tear it apart and
then we base it to
get it down to its
essentials. And then we, you
know, we, then we do
the same thing again. So,
you know, remember trees, trees
were one of those things
that were abused in, in
designs, tree views, Oh, we've
got a problem on the
web. Let's make a giant
tree view. It'll be, you
know, 60 levels deep and
they'll have a plus and
a minus and it'll represent
a tree and we'll stick
it on the left side
and it'll solve all of
our navigation problems. Right. And
then we shoved the entire
web into a tree and
it doesn't work out. And
then we rip it apart
and we come up with
new things like breadcrumbs and
new, new thinking around design
up and out, up and
out. Right. And I think
that's what it needs. Cause
we're all learning this stuff.
And so yeah, we had
to put trees on things
and then realize that they
didn't work and then break
them out and make them
more simple and easier to
use. And yeah, it's, it's
great to see things grow
and change like that. I
wouldn't be interested in our
field if we didn't get
to really push the envelope
and move forward. There's a,
an older, silver light guy.
He used to work for
Microsoft. Now he doesn't have
Scott Barnes who says that one
of the things he likes
and hates about Metro is
that it means that anyone
could make a good looking
application. Like if you simply
follow the rules, you can
at least not being a
designer, have a passable looking
application. I mean, do you
think that Metro is one
of those design tenants? That
for the most part you
can have a decent looking
application, as long as you
follow the rules, If you
follow the rules. Yes. But
I think that's what the
design I, and understanding that
design thinking behind Metro helps
you do, but you still
need a designer to really
help you implement that correctly.
I mean, there's a whole
bunch of, you know, things
that are right there in
the Metro style guide, but
you know, people miss them,
you know, because they're so
used to capitalizing everything or,
you know, and it's just
like, wow, like pop that
down and that'll it look
so much better. And then
when you show, you know,
when you show devs how
to do it, they're like,
Oh, that's great. Yeah. I
don't know. But that's the
one thing the whole let's
make everything lowercase. I'm still
not quite sold on that
one, but it's funny. I
do. I don't, I don't
see Metro in everything, but
I see Metro like things
like, like the economist magazine,
like if you read the
economist and you look at
the way their design has
moved over the years, it's
extremely minimalist. You know, it's,
it's almost, it's almost formulaic,
which is when one of
the things that's Metro has
been both praised on and
accused of sir it's being
formulaic. Right. Well, and I
think, you know, a lot
of great websites out there
definitely take the grid approach.
You know, you put a
grid on it and organize
it in a way so
you can, you know, really
flow through the information and
your eyes can kind of
relax cause they're not bombarded.
But yeah, I think there
are times where you want
to break the grid too.
And I think that's, Metro
allows you to do that
as well altogether. Well, you
know, break the grid with,
let's say that, you know,
the great, you know, in
a full screen images and
stuff like that. So it's
not so hard that it
has to be boring. That's
right. It's not hard wired
to be boring. I think
it's hard wired to be
really simple and you know,
incredibly easy to use. Yeah.
If you look at the
apps that people are talking
about being really nice and
design like Flipboard, you know,
you, you, I bet you,
if you change the font
of Flipboard to, you know,
was it called, is it
Sago? It's pronounced? Oh yeah.
If you changed Flipboard, which
is a magazine application with
the iPad, if you changed
its fonts to say, go,
it'd be a Metro application.
I mean, it's just cause,
cause all there is, is
topography white space and good
photography. And you've advocated for
people having good photography. Like
nothing can spice up a
blog or a magazine or
a design and great photography.
I mean, people want to
look at interesting things. So
yeah, I mean a few
great pieces of photography and
some really nice like clean
fonts, you're halfway the hair.
And that is kind of
the essentials that I think
we're moving towards. I mean
Metro or not it's it
is what it is. The
idea that, that white space
that is meaningful typography and
fonts that are clean, which
is now being enabled by
web fonts, which is great,
having more and more fonts
that are free. Google's got
that great catalog of all
these free patent free and
copyright free fonts that you
can use and good photography.
And you put together a
nice, a nice application of
any kind. Absolutely. I think
about me. That's a great
example to me. Yeah. You
can just, you know, it's
really just a great big
picture view or what you
like to do with your
information and you know, it's
really pretty, they allow you
to, you know, change some
of the things in the
fonts and everything, but it
still ends up looking cool.
It's bizarre. That's so funny
that you bring up about
me. You can go to
about.me/s Hanselman and you can
see, and all it is
is it's like your, your
about page. They want, they
want to be your about
page and it's a giant
photograph of you as the
background, but it's done in
such a way that like,
even though it sounds like
listening to it on a
podcast that how could that
be a business? How could
that actually work? It actually
does. Yeah. Sometimes you don't
need this like grandiose like
complicated idea. It's really just
a neat, simple idea that,
you know, takes off Well,
like tumbler is, is half
what it is, which is
tiny blogging, but it's half
great design. I mean they
really embraced designers and got
designers paid for their designs
as well. Yeah. And they've
rolled out with that great
design right away. Yeah. So
they led with that and
it worked really well for
them. It's interesting. Even, even
sites that you wouldn't think
of as being deepened designed
like stack overflow led with
good design. Like I don't
think there's, there's the gaming
aspect of it stack overflow.
There's the, the crowd theory
and all that economics of
stack overflow. But if it
hadn't been well designed and
well thought out from the
beginning and all of the
subsequent sites that are being
designed around the stack exchange
family, it couldn't have succeeded.
Right. And ugly stack overflow
would be ignored just as
an ugly tumbler would. Oh,
that's right. Yeah. No, I
mean, that was the keys
to the city for them
in a sense, What are
some, and kind of in
conclusion, what are some blogs
like three or four blogs
or books that you would
recommend that non-designer listeners might
enjoy taking a look at
to learn more about the
design world? Sure. I think
a about face by Alan Cooper
is the Bible for interaction
design and great design. I
really like the lukewarm blouse
ski form design book. I
think that's incredibly great. I
mean, if you have to
do something with a lot
of information on a lot
of fields, he tells you
exactly how to make that
like the absolute best experience.
So feels like text boxes
over data, And then let's
see. Okay. What about blogs
that you would read? Like
do you like to read
like the usual suspects, like
a list apart and things
like that Part is fantastic.
I read it all the
time. I mean, obviously I'm
a huge tech crunch fan
and then let's say a
UX mag is good and
smashing mag is really great
too. They broke out and
have a UX sec section
now. And, and they also,
you know, they really accommodate
for, you know, developers do,
they do a lot of
like, you know, let's try
CSS for, you know, like
the stuff and you know,
they, they do a lot
of web design stuff too.
Great. Well, send me those
links and we'll make sure
that we put them up
on the show notes for
folks to visit. Thank you
so much, Sarah. So much
for chatting with me today.
Hey, thanks for having me.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.